---
layout: post
title:  "Schroedinger's Cat is not Alone"
authors: "Beatriz Gato, Beatriz Gato-Rivera"
arXivprefix: ""
arXiv: "1004.4206"
date:   2010-04-01 16:00:00 -0400
tags:
- physics
categories:
twitter_text: "April Fools arXiv paper"
introduction: "We introduce the Complete Wave Function and deduce that all living beings, not just Schroedinger's cat, are..."
---

We introduce the `Complete Wave Function\' and deduce that all living beings, not just Schroedinger\'s cat, are actually described by a superposition of `alive\' and `dead\' quantum states; otherwise they would never die. Therefore this proposal provides a quantum mechanical explanation to the world-wide observation that we all pass away. Next we consider the Measurement problem in the framework of M-theory. For this purpose, together with Schroedinger\'s cat we also place inside the box Rasputin\'s cat, which is unaffected by poison. We analyse the system identifying its excitations (catons and catinos) and we discuss its evolution: either to a classical fight or to a quantum entanglement. We also propose the $BSV\\Psi$ scenario, which implements the Complete Wave Function as well as the Big Bang and the String Landscape in a very (super)natural way. Then we test the gravitational decoherence of the entangled system applying an experimental setting due to Galileo. We also discuss the Information Loss paradox. For this purpose we consider a massless black cat falling inside a massive black hole. After that we outline a method to compute the contribution of black cats to the dark matter of the universe. Finally, in the spirit of Schroedinger, we propose that next generation double-slit experiments should use cats as projectiles. Cat interferometry will inevitably lead to the `Many Cats\' interpretation of Quantum Mechanics, allowing to shed new light on old mysteries and paradoxes. For example, according to this interpretation, conservative estimates show that decision making of a single domestic cat will create about 550 billion whole universes every day, with as many replicas of itself.
